GWEN IFILL: Next, we turn to
Brief But Spectacular,
our occasional series where we
ask interesting
people to discuss their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from
illustrator and graphic
journalist Wendy Macnaughton,
who uses her
art to tell stories that might
otherwise be
overlooked.
WENDY MACNAUGHTON, Illustrator
and Graphic
Journalist: So, you guys are
pointing this
camera in my face, but the great
thing is,
I don't have a camera, but I can
still capture
you. So, don't -- don't move.
OK. Hold on.
Oh, you guys are going to hate
me for this.
you. So, don't -- don't move.
OK. Hold on.
Oh, you guys are going to hate
me for this.
Illustrated journalism is the
words that I
use to tell stories, real
stories using drawings
that I do mostly from life, and
the words
of the people who I speak with.
And I think, a lot of times,
with photography,
for example, if you will take a
camera and
you will start documenting
people, right,
you will start like this --
like, you put
a camera in somebody's face,
then they might
feel a little objectified.
But I'm not saying I do right
now. If you
have a sketchpad and you're
standing there
and you're drawing, instead of
people wondering,
like, what you're doing to them,
they're curious
about what you're doing. So,
people will come
up to me. It actually opens up
doors, whereas
other mediums might close them
down.
I have done stories on the
corners of Fifth
and Sixth Street in San
Francisco, two streets
incredibly different right next
to each other.
On Fifth Street, you have a ton
of people
who are shopping, who are going
to work, who
are working at tech companies.
And then you go over to Sixth
Street, and
you have people who have been
living there
for 20 years. It has got the
highest crime
rate in the city. It has one of
the highest
drug use rates in the city
there. It's just
a really, really tough place to
be. I think
it was a good metaphor for what
is going on
in San Francisco right now.
Last year, my aunt died, and it
was the first
time that I had ever been really
bedside while
somebody was dying. Drawing for
me is a way
of looking at things. It's like
an excuse
to look at something that I
might otherwise
be afraid of. So, I started
drawing my aunt
everyday.
The drawings turned out, I
think, beautiful.
And they're hard to look at, but
they're good
to look at. The same day she
died, I got a
call from this hospice
organization asking
if I would be the artist in
residence.
I went into the hospice project
thinking that
I was going to do a story about
the people
who were dying and it would be
focused on
the people who are dying, but
now I have drawn
for several months, and I can
tell it's not.
It's probably going to be more
about the volunteers,
the amazing volunteers who are
caring for
the people and their families.
I'm interested in the stories of
people who
don't get their stories told.
My name is Wendy Macnaughton.
And this is
my Brief But Spectacular take on
illustrated
documentary.
GWEN IFILL: You can find more of
our Brief
But Spectacular videos on our
Facebook page,
Facebook.com/NewsHour.